chore: add dedicated claude skill for RNE (#800)
software-mansion/react-native-executorch: skills/react-native-executorch/SKILL.md

---
name: react-native-executorch

> description: Build on-device AI into React Native apps using ExecuTorch. Provides hooks for LLMs, computer vision, OCR, audio processing, and embeddings without cloud dependencies. Use when building AI features into mobile apps - AI chatbots, image recognition, speech processing, or text search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Integrate on-device AI into React Native apps using ExecuTorch. Provides hooks for LLMs, computer vision, OCR, audio processing, and embeddings without cloud dependencies. Use when building AI features into mobile apps - AI chatbots, image recognition, speech processing, or text search.
```

---

## When to Use This Skill

Use this skill when you need to:

- **Build AI features directly into mobile apps** without cloud infrastructure
- **Deploy LLMs locally** for text generation, chat, or function calling
- **Add computer vision** (image classification, object detection, OCR)
- **Process audio** (speech-to-text, text-to-speech, voice activity detection)
- **Implement semantic search** with text embeddings
- **Ensure privacy** by keeping all AI processing on-device
- **Reduce latency** by eliminating cloud API calls
- **Work offline** once models are downloaded

## Overview

> React Native Executorch is a library that enables on-device AI model execution in React Native applications. It provides hooks and utilities for running machine learning models directly on mobile devices without requiring cloud infrastructure or internet connectivity (after initial model download).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native Executorch is a library that enables on-device AI model execution in React Native applications. It provides APIs for running machine learning models directly on mobile devices without requiring cloud infrastructure or internet connectivity (after initial model download).
```

- Multi-language support with language-specific recognizers

**Reference:** See [./references/reference-ocr.md](./references/reference-ocr.md)

---

### Audio Processing

Convert between speech and text, and detect speech activity in audio.

**Supported tasks:**

- **Speech-to-Text** - Transcribe audio to text (supports English and multilingual)
- **Text-to-Speech** - Generate natural-sounding speech from text
- **Voice Activity Detection** - Detect speech segments in audio

**Reference:** See [./references/reference-audio.md](./references/reference-audio.md)

---

### Natural Language Processing

Convert text to numerical representations for semantic understanding and search.

**Supported tasks:**

- **Text Embeddings** - Convert text to vectors for similarity/search
- **Tokenization** - Convert text to tokens and vice versa

**Reference:** See [./references/reference-nlp.md](./references/reference-nlp.md)

---

## Getting Started by Use Case

### I want to build a chatbot or AI assistant

Use `useLLM` hook with one of the available language models.

**What to do:**

1. Choose a model from available LLM options (consider device memory constraints)

> 2. Use the `useLLM` hook to load the model

Reviewer: or the TS API

**What to do:**

- **For Speech-to-Text:** Capture or load audio, ensure 16kHz sample rate, transcribe
- **For Text-to-Speech:** Prepare text, specify voice parameters, generate audio waveform, play using audio context

**Reference:** [./references/reference-audio.md](./references/reference-audio.md)

**Model options:** [./references/reference-models.md](./references/reference-models.md) - Speech to Text and Text to Speech sections

---

### I want to find similar images or texts

Use `useImageEmbeddings` for images or `useTextEmbeddings` for text.

**What to do:**

1. Load appropriate embeddings model
2. Generate embeddings for your content
3. Compute similarity metrics (cosine similarity, dot product)
4. Use similarity scores for search, clustering, or deduplication

**Reference:**

- Text: [./references/reference-nlp.md](./references/reference-nlp.md)
- Images: [./references/reference-cv-2.md](./references/reference-cv-2.md)

---

### I want to apply artistic filters to photos

Use `useStyleTransfer` to apply predefined artistic styles to images.

**What to do:**

1. Choose from available artistic styles (Candy, Mosaic, Udnie, Rain Princess)
2. Load the style transfer model

> 3. Pass image URI

Reviewer 2: And here as well (probably every CV task)
